docs/fine-tune/train-operators/train_on_mnist.md, before:

---
id: train-mnist
title: Fine-Tune with MNIST
---

Follow steps below to get started with a jupyter notebook for how to train a Towhee operator.
This example fine-tunes a pretrained model (eg. resnet-18) with the MNIST dataset.

## 1. Download Operator
Download operator files together with the jupyter notebook.
```bash
$ git clone https://towhee.io/towhee/resnet-image-embedding.git
$ cd resnet-image-embedding/examples
```

## 2. Setup Operator
Create operator and load model by name.
```python
import sys
sys.path.append('..')

from resnet_image_embedding import ResnetImageEmbedding

# Set num_classes=10 for MNIST dataset
op = ResnetImageEmbedding('resnet18', num_classes=10)
```

## 3. Configure Trainer:
Modify training configurations on top of default values.
```python
from towhee.trainer.training_config import TrainingConfig

training_config = TrainingConfig()
training_config.batch_size = 64
training_config.epoch_num = 2
training_config.tensorboard = None
training_config.output_dir = 'mnist_output'
```

## 4. Prepare Dataset
The example here uses the MNIST dataset for both training and evaluation.
```python
from torchvision import transforms
from towhee import dataset
from torchvision.transforms import Lambda

mean = 0.1307
std = 0.3081
mnist_transform = transforms.Compose([transforms.ToTensor(),
                                          Lambda(lambda x: x.repeat(3, 1, 1)),
                                          transforms.Normalize(mean=[mean] * 3, std=[std] * 3)])
train_data = dataset('mnist', transform=mnist_transform, download=True, root='data', train=True)
eval_data = dataset('mnist', transform=mnist_transform, download=True, root='data', train=False)
```

## 5. Start Training

Training Resnet-18 with MNIST will take about 30-100 minutes on a cpu machine.
Modify `training_config.device` to speed up with GPU.
```python
op.train(
    training_config,
    train_dataset=train_data,
    eval_dataset=eval_data
    )
```

    2022-03-02 18:43:32,380 - 8612169216 - trainer.py-trainer:390 - WARNING: TrainingConfig(output_dir='mnist_output', overwrite_output_dir=True, eval_strategy='epoch', eval_steps=None, batch_size=64, val_batch_size=-1, seed=42, epoch_num=2, dataloader_pin_memory=True, dataloader_drop_last=True, dataloader_num_workers=0, lr=5e-05, metric='Accuracy', print_steps=None, load_best_model_at_end=False, early_stopping={'monitor': 'eval_epoch_metric', 'patience': 4, 'mode': 'max'}, model_checkpoint={'every_n_epoch': 1}, tensorboard=None, loss='CrossEntropyLoss', optimizer='Adam', lr_scheduler_type='linear', warmup_ratio=0.0, warmup_steps=0, device_str=None, n_gpu=-1, sync_bn=False, freeze_bn=False)
    [epoch 1/2] loss=0.203, metric=0.945, eval_loss=0.182, eval_metric=0.988: 100%|██████████| 937/937 [19:04<00:00,  1.22s/step]
    [epoch 2/2] loss=0.044, metric=0.994, eval_loss=0.045, eval_metric=0.989: 100%|██████████| 937/937 [19:08<00:00,  1.20s/step]

Observing epoch progress bars, if loss decreases while metric increases, then you are training the model properly.

## 6. Predict after Training

After training, you can make new predictions with the operator.
Comparing new predicted results with actual labels, you can evaluate the fine-tuned model with accuracy.

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import torch
import random

# Get a random picture and predict it.
img_index = random.randint(0, len(eval_data))
img = eval_data.dataset[img_index][0]
img = img.numpy().transpose(1, 2, 0)  # (C, H, W) -> (H, W, C)
pil_img = img * std + mean
plt.imshow(pil_img)
plt.show()
test_img = eval_data.dataset[img_index][0].unsqueeze(0).to(op.trainer.configs.device)
out = op.trainer.predict(test_img)
predict_num = torch.argmax(torch.softmax(out, dim=-1)).item()
print('this picture is number {}'.format(predict_num))
```


​    
![png](mnist_example.png)
​    


    This picture is number 9

Commit message:

Update docs of trainer steps
Signed-off-by: Jael Gu <mengjia.gu@zilliz.com>

docs/fine-tune/train-operators/train_on_mnist.md, after:

---
id: train-mnist
title: Fine-Tune with MNIST
---

Follow steps below to get started with a jupyter notebook for how to train a Towhee operator.
This example fine-tunes a pretrained model (eg. resnet-18) with the MNIST dataset.

## 1. Download Operator
Download operator files together with the jupyter notebook.
```bash
$ git clone https://towhee.io/towhee/resnet-image-embedding.git
$ cd resnet-image-embedding/examples
```
Then run Python scripts in following steps to train and test a Towhee operator.

## 2. Setup Operator
Create operator and load model by name.
```python
import sys
sys.path.append('..')

from resnet_image_embedding import ResnetImageEmbedding

# Set num_classes=10 for MNIST dataset
op = ResnetImageEmbedding('resnet18', num_classes=10)
```

## 3. Configure Trainer:
Modify training configurations on top of default values.
```python
from towhee.trainer.training_config import TrainingConfig

training_config = TrainingConfig()
training_config.batch_size = 64
training_config.epoch_num = 2
training_config.tensorboard = None
training_config.output_dir = 'mnist_output'
```

## 4. Prepare Dataset
The example here uses the MNIST dataset for both training and evaluation.
```python
from torchvision import transforms
from towhee import dataset
from torchvision.transforms import Lambda

mean = 0.1307
std = 0.3081
mnist_transform = transforms.Compose([transforms.ToTensor(),
                                          Lambda(lambda x: x.repeat(3, 1, 1)),
                                          transforms.Normalize(mean=[mean] * 3, std=[std] * 3)])
train_data = dataset('mnist', transform=mnist_transform, download=True, root='data', train=True)
eval_data = dataset('mnist', transform=mnist_transform, download=True, root='data', train=False)
```

## 5. Start Training

Training Resnet-18 with MNIST will take about 30-100 minutes on a cpu machine.
Modify `training_config.device` to speed up with GPU.
```python
op.train(
    training_config,
    train_dataset=train_data,
    eval_dataset=eval_data
    )
```

    2022-03-02 18:43:32,380 - 8612169216 - trainer.py-trainer:390 - WARNING: TrainingConfig(output_dir='mnist_output', overwrite_output_dir=True, eval_strategy='epoch', eval_steps=None, batch_size=64, val_batch_size=-1, seed=42, epoch_num=2, dataloader_pin_memory=True, dataloader_drop_last=True, dataloader_num_workers=0, lr=5e-05, metric='Accuracy', print_steps=None, load_best_model_at_end=False, early_stopping={'monitor': 'eval_epoch_metric', 'patience': 4, 'mode': 'max'}, model_checkpoint={'every_n_epoch': 1}, tensorboard=None, loss='CrossEntropyLoss', optimizer='Adam', lr_scheduler_type='linear', warmup_ratio=0.0, warmup_steps=0, device_str=None, n_gpu=-1, sync_bn=False, freeze_bn=False)
    [epoch 1/2] loss=0.203, metric=0.945, eval_loss=0.182, eval_metric=0.988: 100%|██████████| 937/937 [19:04<00:00,  1.22s/step]
    [epoch 2/2] loss=0.044, metric=0.994, eval_loss=0.045, eval_metric=0.989: 100%|██████████| 937/937 [19:08<00:00,  1.20s/step]

Observing epoch progress bars, if loss decreases while metric increases, then you are training the model properly.

## 6. Predict after Training

After training, you can make new predictions with the operator.
Comparing new predicted results with actual labels, you can evaluate the fine-tuned model with accuracy.

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import torch
import random

# Get a random picture and predict it.
img_index = random.randint(0, len(eval_data))
img = eval_data.dataset[img_index][0]
img = img.numpy().transpose(1, 2, 0)  # (C, H, W) -> (H, W, C)
pil_img = img * std + mean
plt.imshow(pil_img)
plt.show()
test_img = eval_data.dataset[img_index][0].unsqueeze(0).to(op.trainer.configs.device)
out = op.trainer.predict(test_img)
predict_num = torch.argmax(torch.softmax(out, dim=-1)).item()
print('this picture is number {}'.format(predict_num))
```


​    
![png](mnist_example.png)
​    


    This picture is number 9
