---
sidebar_label: Overview
slug: /
---

# Overview

Towhee is a framework that provides [ETL](https://databricks.com/glossary/extract-transform-load) for [unstructured data](https://mitsloan.mit.edu/ideas-made-to-matter/tapping-power-unstructured-data) using SoTA machine learning models.

## What is unstructured data?

Unstructured data refers to data that cannot be stored in a tabular or key-value format. Nearly all human-generated data (images, video, text, etc...) is unstructured - some market analysts estimate that over 80% of data generated by 2024 will be unstructured data. Towhee is the first open-source project that's meant to process a variety of unstructured data using ETL pipelines.

To accomplish this, we built Towhee atop popular machine learning and unstructured data processing libraries, i.e. `torch`, `timm`, `transformers`, etc. Models or functions from different libraries are wrapped as standard Towhee operators, and can be freely integrated into application-oriented pipelines using a [Pythonic API](./04-API Reference). To ensure user-friendliness, pre-built pipelines can also be called in just a single line of code, without the need to understand the underlying models or modules used to build them.

For more information, take a look at our [quick start](/02-Getting%20Started/01-quick-start.mdx) page.

## Problems Towhee solves

- **Modern ML applications require far more than a single neural network.** Running a modern ML application in production requires a combination of online pre-processing, data transformation, the models themselves, and other ML-related tools. Building an application that recognizes objects within a video, for example, involves decompression, key-frame extraction, image deduplication, object detection, etc. This necessitates a platform that offers a fast and robust method for developing end-to-end application pipelines that use ML models in addition to supporting data parallelism and resource management.

  Towhee solves this problem by reintroducing the concept of `Pipeline` as being _application-centric_ instead of _model-centric_. Where model-centric pipelines are composed of a single model followed by auxiliary code, application-centric pipelines treat every single data processing step as a first-class citizen. Towhee also exposes a [Pythonic API](./04-API Reference) for developing more complex applications in just a couple lines of code.

- **Too many model implementations exist without any interface standard.** Machine learning models (NN-based and traditional) are ubiquitous. Different implementations of machine learning models require different auxiliary code to support testing and fine-tuning, making model evaluation and productionization a tedious task.

  Towhee solves this by providing a universal `Operator` wrapper for dataset loading, basic data transformations, ML models, and other miscellaneous scripts. Operators have a pre-defined API and glue logic to make Towhee work with a number of machine learning and data processing libraries. Operators can be chained together in a DAG to form entire ML applications.

- **ETL pipelines for unstructured data are nearly nonexistent.** ETL, short for _extract, transform, and load_, is a framework used by data scientists, ML application developers, and other engineers to extract data from various sources, transform the data into a format that can be understood by computers, and load the data into downstream platforms for recommendation, analytics, and other business intelligence tasks.

  Towhee solves this by providing an open-source vision for ETL in the era of unstructured data. We provide: 1) over 300 pre-built pipelines across a multitude of different data transformation tasks (including but not limited to image embedding, audio embedding, text summarization), and 2) a way to build pipelines of arbitrary complexity through an intuitive Python API.

## Design philosophy

- **Convenient**: Towhee pipelines can be created to implement a variety of data transformation tasks. Any pipeline creations or embedding tasks can be done in no more than 10 lines of code. We provide a number of pre-built pipelines on our [hub](https://towhee.io/pipelines?limit=30&page=1).

- **Extensible**: Individual operators have standard interfaces, and can be reconfigured/reused in different pipelines. Pipelines can be deployed anywhere you want - on your local machine, on a server with 4 GPUs, or even in the cloud.

- **Application-oriented**: Instead of being "just another model hub", we provide full end-to-end embedding pipelines. Each pipeline can make use of any number of machine learning models or Python functions in a variety of configurations - ensembles, flows, or any combination thereof.

## Where to go from here

### Getting started:

- Check out our [Quick Start](/02-Getting%20Started/01-quick-start.mdx): install Towhee and try your first pipeline.
- Try pre-built [Operators](https://towhee.io/operators).
- Towhee [API Reference](https://towhee.readthedocs.io).

### Tutorials:

- [Reverse image search](https://github.com/towhee-io/examples): search for similar or related images.
- [Image deduplication](https://github.com/towhee-io/examples): detect and remove identical or near-identical photos.
- [Music recognition](https://github.com/towhee-io/examples): music identification with full-length song or a snippet.

### Community:

- Github: https://github.com/towhee-io/towhee
- Slack: https://slack.towhee.io
- Twitter: https://twitter.com/towheeio
